Now that Maya has explained
the basics of machine learning,
let's remember how big data
influences analytical applications.
And how we can take advantage of
the existing big data tools and
techniques in machine learning.
How can machine learning
algorithms be scaled up
to process large volumes of data?
Let's talk about that now.
After this video, you will be able to
explain how machine learning
techniques can scale up to big data.
And discuss the role of distributed
computing platforms like Hadoop and
Spark in applying machine
learning to big data.
With the massive amounts of data
that need to be processed for
applications, such as drug
effectiveness analysis,
climate monitoring, and
website recommendations to name a few.
We need to be able to add scalability
to machine learning techniques.
How do we apply machine learning at scale?
One way, is to scale up by
adding more memory, processors,
and storage to our system so
that it can store and process more data.
This is not the big data approach.
Specialized hardware such as
graphical processing units, or
GPUs for short,
can also be added to speed up the miracle
operations common in machine
learning algorithms.
Although this is a good approach,
this is also not the big data approach.
As we learned in our introductory course,
one problem with this approach
is that larger specialized
hardware can be very costly.
Another problem is that we
eventually will hit a limit.
There's only so
much hardware you can add to a machine.
An alternative approach is to scale out.
This means using many local commodity
distribution systems together.
Data is distributed over these
systems to gain processing speed up.
As shown in this illustration the idea is
to divide the data into smaller subsets.
The same processing is applied to
each subset, or map, and the results
are merged at the end to come up with the
overall results for the original dataset.
Let's consider an example,
where we want to apply the same operation
to all the samples in
a dataset of N samples.
In this case, N is four.
If it takes T time units to perform this
operation on each sample,
then with sequential processing
the time to apply that operation
to all samples, is N times T.
If we have a cluster of four processors,
we can distribute the data
across the four processors.
Each process performs the operation on
the dataset subset of N over four samples.
Processing of the four subsets
of the data is done in parallel.
That is, the subsets
are processed at the same time.
The processing time for the distributed
approach is approximately N over 4 times T
plus any overhead required to merge
the subset results and maybe shuffle them.
This is a speedup of nearly four
times over the sequential approach.
On a distributed computing
platform such as Spark or Hadoop,
scalable machine learning algorithms
use the same scale out approach.
Data is distributed across
different processors,
which operate on the data subsets
in parallel using map, reduce, and
other distributed
parallel transformations.
This allows for
machine learning techniques to be
applied to large volumes of data.
In this course, we will use Spark and
its scalable machine learning library,
MLF, to show you how machine
learning can be applied to big data.
And don't forget,
this is the processing of the machine
learning on where the data resides.
And we call this, the Big Data Approach.
However, you can also imagine
a scenario where you also
update the machine learning
algorithms to scale up.
So you can paralyze the machine
learning algorithms themselves,
and also use processing of big
data together with this approach.